Nutritioni Journey App

Carbohydrate: -

Step 1 (defining what a carbohydrate is) 

A carbohydrate is form of sugar. Sugar or glucose is one of the simplest forms of carbohydrate.
Starch, like in a potatoe or pastea is one of most complex froms of carbohydrate, made from long chains of glucose molecules.

Glucose is important, it is your bodies preferred source of energy!


Display ideas here. Could have an nested video of a glucose molecule or starch. 


Step 2. (Upon noming) (drag and drop the carbs into the mouth, munching sound effects, animate movement to the belly)

Once you have eaten a carbohydrate, your begins breaking it down into the smallest pieces it can. Glucose molcules! This starts happening as soon as it enters your mouth.

All carbohydrates become glucose! (nearly)

Step 3.

Glucose is a small molecule and is easily absorbed into your body in the small intestine. This happens very quickly in foods that have a lot of simple carbohydrates like sweets and fizzy drinks.  It takes much longer with complex carbohydrates taking several hours.

Step 4.
 The pancreas watches your blood for the amount of glucose in it and when it gets to high releases a hormone called insulin. This tells your liver to remove the glucose and store it in long carbohydrate chains called glycogen or pushes it into your muscles for an emergency situation. 

 200 grams is how much glucose a fully grown man can accomodate in his muscles, once it is there it cannot come out and can be only removed through exercise!

 The liver stores 70 grams, this is used up daily 

Step 5. Once both the muscles and the liver are full of glucose, all extra glucose is turned by the body it fat! or adipose tissue!



FAT: - Fat is the combinatation of two types of molecules, a type of alcohol called glycerol and several long chain molecules called fatty acids. These join together to make a molecule called triacylglycerol. It is the only macronutrient that is essential to life, i.e. the body can't make it from something else.

There are many types of fat, sometimes referred to as good or bad

Step 1: After eating fat, your body beings breaking it down in the stomach into smaller parts, bile from the gall bladder continues this process.

Step 2: These molecules float around the body in the blood until the get somewhere were they are needed for energy or they are stored as adipose tissue, or fat cells.

Step 3: Both excess carbohydrate and protein can also be stored in this manner as fat cells.

Step 4: Fatty acids can be used directly by your cells in the body for energy creation via a process called beta-oxidation

Step 5: Fat can't enter the brain so in the absence of glucose, some fat is transformed to a new form of energy know as ketone bodies that the brain can use as fuel.




PROTEIN: Protein is a combination of many different molecules called aminoacides, joined together to make proteins. Protein can be used in the body as a fuel source but also to build tissue in a similar way to fat.


Step 1; After eating protein, your body beings breaking it down in the stomach the smallest parts of amino acids before being absorbed into the body

Step 2: Excess amino acids can be either converted to glucose or fat for storage and use at a later data

Step 3: The body is also able to deconstruct muscle tissue for use as energy if required to.








